# Exercise - JPA Entity Mappings


*These exercises are meant to assist you in learning important
ORM-topics. The task is not to complete the exercises as fast as
possible, but to LEARN important concepts. Don’t skip parts like : “Make
sure you understand ..”, “explain why ..” etc. These parts match typical
questions given at the exam.*

### Relationship Mapping

Object oriented programming is, to a large degree, about creating
classes which relate to each other. If a class cannot solve a problem by
itself, it delegates the job to another class.

Relations between classes have **cardinality**, and can be either bi- or
*uni-directional*.

There are 8 different combinations of Cardinality and Direction, and
they can all easily be implemented in JPA with some nice
NetBeans-assistance.

  |Cardinality             |  Direction    |
  |-------------------------| ----------------|
  |One-to-one       |         Unidirectional|
  |One-to-one       |         Bidirectional|
  |One-to-many      |         Unidirectional|
  |Many-to-one/one-to-many |  Bidirectional|
  |Many-to-one      |         Unidirectional|
  |Many-to-many     |         Unidirectional|
  |Many-to-many     |         Bidirectional|

In the following, we will test four of these combinations

*Make sure your have “read” the literature relating to relation-mapping
before doing these exercises.*

#### Getting Started

For this exercise you need two Entity classes as sketched below:

Customer → With the fields 
- id(Integer), 
- firstName(String),
- lastName(String)

Address → With the fields 
- id (Integer), 
- street (String), 
- city (String)

For both classes, use GenerationType.IDENTITY to let the database
generate ids automatically (using MySQLs AUTO\_INCREMENT feature)

Create a new plain java maven project (or continue with the project from
day-1), and create a Persistence Unit and the two new entity classes +
relevant getters, setters and constructors (don't forget the zero-arg
constructor).

Add a Tester-class, similar to day-1, and this line to verify that we
can create the matching classes:

Persistence.generateSchema("NAME\_OF YOUR\_PU", null);

*Note: The following exercises is just as much a recap on your
second-semester knowledge about relational mappings. DON’t skip the
steps, where you are requested to compare Entity Classes to the
generated tables. This is to a large degree what what we will discuss at
the examination.*

1) One to One – Unidirectional
------------------------------

Provider the Customer with an Address field:

private Address address;

Add the cursor on the field and press ALT + ENTER → Select Create
*unidirectional one to one relationship*

Make sure you understand the "things" that changed in the Customer and
(if any) the Address class.

Regenerate the schema and investigate the generated tables. Observe the
location of the *foreign key*

*Before you continue, make sure you understand (100% exam relevant) how
and OO-language implements OneToOne relations and how a relational
database do the same.*

2) One to One – Bidirectional
-----------------------------

Remove the @OneToOne annotation and create a bidirectional *one to one*
relationship *(*again - right-click, and select the option you want).

Make sure you understand what is meant by bidirectional, before you
continue (how would you show bidirectional using UML?)

Creating a bidirectional relationship will obviously require you to add
a reference in Address, pointing back to Customer. Provide a name when
requested by the wizard (customer) and select the default for the owning
side[^1].

-   Go to the Address class. Investigate and *understand* the generated code.

-   Run the project and investigate the generated tables (the foreign key). Is there any difference compared to the previous exercise. *If not explain why*.

3) OneToMany (unidirectional)
-----------------------------

Remove the generated code in *both classes* and use the wizard, one more
time. This time to generate a *OneToMany* relationship. You obviously
can’t do that with your current Address field since this can hold only
one instance, so change it into:

`private List<Address> addresses = new ArrayList();`

Now, a Customer can have several addresses. If you feel the opposite
makes more sense; an address can have more Customers (i.e two customers
are married, and live together), just do that instead, this is a
“business decision”.

Now, use the wizard to generate a *OneToMany Unidirectional
relationship*.

-   Observe the generated code.
-   Run the project and investigate the generated tables. Make sure to press Refresh so see all tables.

    -   How many tables were generated? Explain the purpose of each of
 the tables.

-   If you (as me) don't like the number of generated tables generated by this strategy, you can use the @JoinColumn annotation to implement the relation using a foreign key. Do this, but before you test, delete ALL generated tables in the database

-   Create a "test" method and insert a number of Customers with Addresses into the tables, using JPA.

4) OneToMany (bidirectional)
----------------------------

Remove the generated code in both classes and comment out your test
code.

Use the wizard to generate a OneToMany *Bidirectional relationship*.
Make sure you understand all the suggestions given by the wizard, before
you accept.

-   Observe the generated code, especially where we find the *mappedBy* value. **Explain**.

-   Run the project and investigate the generated tables (the foreign key).

-   Create a "test" method and insert a number of Customers with Addresses into the tables, using JPA. Which extra step is required for this strategy compared to OneToMany unidirectional ?

*Again, before you continue, make sure you can explain/answer the
questions above, and generally explain the generated tables and how they
map to the code.*

5) Many To Many (bidirectional)
-------------------------------

Finally let's implement a ManyToMany relationship between Customer and
Address, That is: a customer can have many addresses, and an address can
"have" many Customers.

IMPORTANT: Before you do this, refresh your knowledge from 1-2 semester
and answer the following questions.
-   How can we implement ManyToMany relationships in an OO-language (like Java)?
-   How can we implement ManyToMany relationships in a Relational Database?

A\) Remove the generated code in *both* classes

Right click the addresses list and select create *bidirectional Many to
Many Relationship* (observe; both sides can be the owning side)

-   Observe the generated code and make sure you understand *every line generated in BOTH classes*.

-   Run the project and investigate the generated tables. Explain ALL generated tables.

-   Create a "test" method and insert a number of Customers and Addresses. Make sure to test both the scenario where a customer can have more than one address, and an Address can belong to more than one customer.

B\) Create a "façade" class *CustomerFacade*, providing the following
methods:

`Customer getCustomer(int id);`

`List<Customer> getCustomers();`

`Customer addCustomer(Customer cust);`

`Customer deleteCustomer(int id);`
`Customer editCustomer(Customer cust);`

If not already done, provide the Customer Class with the following
methods:

`List<Address> getAddresses();`

`Void addAddress(Address address);`

Provide the Address class with the similar methods (for Customers)

### Hints 

1\) Structure of Façade Class) → Use this template for the Factory class.

```java
public class CustomerFacade {
    EntityManagerFactory emf;
    public CustomerFacade(EntityManagerFactory emf) {
    this.emf = emf;
    }
    EntityManager getEntityManager(){
    return emf.createEntityManager();
    }
}

```
2\) Structure of each method that uses the EntityManager → Use the
pattern given below:
```java
EntityManager em = getEntityManager();
 try{
 // Use the entity manager
 }finally{
   em.close();
}
```

3\) Open the JPQL readings for tomorrow. Don’t read it, just find the
SELECT queries near the top. You should be able to modify one for this
use case.

4\) In order to persist both a Customer and his Addresses you can:

-   Use the cascade property on the @ManyToMany annotation, or:

-   Persist the customer, and persist the addresses in the Customers address list.

