# Day-1 ES6 and React
Create a new react app using create-react-app.
Remove the icon from the project (logo.svg) and all references to the icon (in App.js)

Remove the style from the header in App.js, and use this code as the start code for the following exercises.
The first two exercises will focus on two new ES6-topics found in this project, and also on basic React:
ES6 modules with import and export and
Object destructuring
Try
### 1 Understanding ES6 Modules – import and export
You should first skim this reference for info related to ES6 modules (import/export)  
**a.** In the src-folder, create a new JavaScript file called dataStore1.js and paste in the following content:
```js
export const text1 = "Hello";
export const text2 = "Hello World";
export const text3 = "Hello Wonderfull World";
 
export default function(str){
  return str.toUpperCase();
}
```
Observe how we export "many" named values using the export keyword, and a single value using export default. Usually it's not recommended to mix default exports with “named” exports. However, for simplicity we do it here.
What you export as default (only one value pr. File) must be imported like this:
`import upper from "./dataStore1";`
 
What you export as named (non-default) exports will be exported as one single object (containing the three properties text1, text2, text3) and must be included with the Object Destructuring syntax, see below:
 
`import {text1,text2, text3} from "./dataStore1";`
 
You can import it all as sketched below:
 
`import upper, {text1,text2, text3} from "./dataStore1";`
 
b) Import the three strings, and the function in App.js, and add four <p> tags that will print the variables (remember the default export is a function, so call it with a default value like:
 `<p>{upper("please uppercase me")}</p>`

2. Object Destructuring Continued
Skim this article first for a "dead Simple intro to Destructuring JavaScript Objects"

**a)** In the src-folder, create a new JavaScript-file dataStore2.js, and export an object as sketched below
export default {
  firstName: "Kurt",
  lastName: "Wonnegut",
  gender : "Male",
  email: "kurt@wonnegut.dk",
  phone: "12345",
}  
**b)** In App.js import this into a variable called person  
**c)** Implement a one-liner (using Object destructuring) to initialize (only) two variables, firstName and email.  
**d)** Add a new <p>-tag, that prints firstName, email.
React:
Create a new project with create-react-app, as the start project for the following exercises and remove unnecessary code as you did for the first exercise
1 Functional versus Class Components
Read/skim this article (the section Functional and Class Components)
Whenever you don't use state or life cycle methods (we will come back to both later) you can an write your Components as either a Functional or a Class Component. Actually functional components are always preferred when possible.
a) Rewrite the App.js into a functional component, instead of the Class Component generated by create-react-app.
Note the exercise below demonstrates a simple way to have "many" small code examples in a single create-react-app generated project. Use this strategy for all the "smaller" exercises in this set
### 2 Composing Components
Important: The next two exercises focuses on props and how to pass props into  components. So make sure to read about props first, they are one of the top-5 MOST IMPORTANT PARTS to understand in React.
Props-1
a) In the src folder, add a new file App2.js, and add an import for React in the first line (as in App.js) 
b) Copy the Welcome and the App component (and only those) from the top of  this example into this file (remember to export your component):
Make sure you understand why the parenthesis is needed after the return statement in the App component, and not in the Welcome Component.
c) Open index.js and comment out line that imports from App.js and replace with this line:
Import App from ‘./App2’;
As long as you still import into a field called App, this line will render your new component:
ReactDOM.render(<App />, document.getElementById('root'));
 
Verify that your new component is rendered
Obviously there are ways to navigate between pages (views) in React. For now just use this simple strategy to hold your different examples, in a single project.
Props-2
Let's make the example above, a little bit more interesting.
a) First, open dataStore2.js and add this export to the file:
export const names = [
{firstName:"Kurt",lastName:"Wonnegut",gender: "Male",email: "kurt@wonnegut.dk", phone: "12345"},
{firstName:"Jane",lastName:"Wonnegut",gender:"female",email:"jane@wonnegut.dk", phone: "12345"},
{firstName:"ib",lastName: "Wonnegut",gender : "Male",email: "i@wonnegut.dk", phone: "12345"},
];
Observe (again) that you can only have one default export, so this is a named export. Consult the first exercise, if you have forgot how to import named exports (destructuring).  
b) In App2.js add a new functional Component (below the Welcome Component) called WelcomePerson.
This component should also take in a props param, but here you will get a person (taken from the list created in step-a) and you should render the firstName and lastName of a person i the Component  
c) In App, below the three usages of the original Welcome component add three usages of the new component as sketched here: <WelcomePerson person={names[0]}  />
Obviously you could have iterated over the array, but do it like this to simplify the task. 
Hint: Handling “complex” props can be somehow confusing the first time you try it. If it gives you any trouble, add a console.log(props) as the first line in your WelcomePerson component and observe what you get in.
Answer these questions before you continue (skip this part, and you have wasted your time)
What is a functional component?
What is a Class Component 
What is the idea with props
Provide a simple example in how you write a Component that accepts props
Provide a simple example (could be a line from the exercise above) that demonstrates how you pass props into a Component

 3 Adding Local State and Lifecycle Methods to a class
State and when to use state, compared to props, is another of the top-5 MOST IMPORTANT PARTS to understand with  React. So don’t continued unless you have read about state.

a) Read this paragraph about state, and all the steps that leads to the final version of clock (in that paragraph) 
b) Now Add a new file Clock.js to the src folder and add the Clock from above (only the Clock class, not the render-part, and remember to export it, and remember to include React)
c) Test the code, using this slightly changed  strategy given for  the previous exercises
In index.js, comment out the import of App2 and import your Clock-component like this: 
import Clock from './Clock';
This will require you to change the ReactDom.render(..) method into this:
ReactDOM.render(<Clock/>, document.getElementById('root'));
(You could have imported into the name App, instead of Clock, but that would break the always important goal of having self-documenting code)
d) Right now, the example is pretty boring since the time never changes (info: if a variable never changes DON’t use state, use props or a constant)
Complete this section of the react-tutorial until you end up with a page that updates the time every second.
The important thing to learn from this is, WHAT IS IT, that actually forces react to re-render each second?
Combining props and state
e) Having a hard-coded message like  "Hello World" is never ideal. Add the necessary changes so you can pass in any text, via props to the Clock Component   "Check our cool React driven timer ;-)" like this:
ReactDOM.render(msg='Check our cool React driven timer'/>, ...
Answer these questions before you continue (skip this part, and you have wasted your time)
Would it be possible to rewrite the Clock component into a functional component (provide arguments for your answer)?
How do you set values for state in these places: 1) In the constructor 2) all other places?
How is it possible to "tell" React that you want the UI to be updated (re-rendered)?
Which method, in the Clock class, is responsible for “forcing” a re-render
What is the difference(s) between state and props
How do you pass in prop values to a Component
What is the purpose of React Components Life Cycle Methods?

4 Events and ES6 arrow Functions
Before you start you should read this article about Reacts way of handling events.
a) Add a new file Toggle.js into the src folder, and paste in the Toggle class from this example (remember: import React,  only include the class, and also default export the Class ).  Test the example, similar to how you did with the previous examples
b) In the constructor comment out this line, and explain the result: 
this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
Info: JavaScript includes the "this" reference, spelled like in Java, but there are serious differences between the two. This can be tricky in several situations, especially if you expect JavaScript-this to behave like in Java. ES6 (es2015) has tried to clean up the this-behavior inside classes, where you can get a behavior (almost) similar to Java if you use ES6 arrow functions.
c) Still, with the line commented out as you did in c), rewrite the handleClick function into an arrow function as sketched below, and verify that the example works again
handleClick = () => { ...}
 
Info: These are the two ways you can (and must) use to deal with this for event handlers (bind and arrow functions). You can use whatever you prefer, but you need to know both strategies, since they are both used "out there"
Passing extra events to event handlers
f) First read this short section in the guidelines

g) Change the constructor to set state like this:
this.state = { isToggleOnA: true, isToggleOnB: true,  isToggleOnC: true };

h) Change the button declaration in the render method into this:
```jsx
<button id="a" onClick={this.handleClick.bind(this,"isToggleOnA")}
{this.state.isToggleOnA ? 'ON' : 'OFF'}
</button>
```

i) Add 2 additional buttons to render() as sketched below. Change relevant text for each button into (A, B or C respectively)

j) Change handleClick(..) to take an argument, and to change state only for the relevant button.

Info: This could have been done simpler by providing the button with an id. Do it like this to see how to pass extra arguments into an event-handler!
Answer these questions before you continue (skip this part, and you have wasted your time)
What is the purpose of this line in the constructor: 
this.handleClick = this.handleClick.bind(this);
How can we disable the default behavior of an event handler (i.e. prevent a submit?)
What is the difference in your code, when using arrow-functions in a ES6 class?
5      Lifecycle methods Continued
This exercise continues with where exercise-3 left (that is the Clock example), however before you start, you should skim this article about lifecycle methods.
The article introduces the lifecycle methods for Mounting, Updating and Unmounting components.
a) The Clock Component already includes four lifecycle methods (which?). In each of those methods add a console.log statement like: console.log("I am the componentDidMount");
b)       Add an override for each of the missing lifecycle methods, with a message as sketched above.
Note: while you do a and b make sure to have your browsers Developer Console open so you can correct any mistakes you might make.
c) Clear the log in your Developer Console, and observe the messages printed
d) Provide a small explanation for each of the outputs, the purpose of the override, and when you observed it to print
I want more ;-)
Continue with the egghead-video tutorial 
