React Native, Day-1
===================

Getting started
---------------

Install Create React Native App like: **npm install -g
create-react-native-app**

Install the required Expo tools as explained
[*here*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/installation.html)
(you don’t need to install the emulators, if you have an up-to-date
phone).

1 My first project (generated by XDE)
-------------------------------------

With React Native and expo, there are two ways to create a new project

-   With create-react-native-app. This is the counterpart to
    > create-react-app:

> **Create-react-native-app my-app-name**

-   With the Expo XDE, via: project→ New Project

To ensure that you have installed the XDE correctly, we will use this
strategy first

Follow the steps given in this "[*Up and
Running*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/up-and-running.html)"
guide and verify that you can create the project, install and execute it
on you device (via the Expo-app), and change the project code in your
IDE/editor.

Note: Unless you are a red student, don't spend too much time with this
example. It was done to show how fast, we can get "up and running" with
Expo/React Native, with a relatively complex start template. In the next
step, we will start a Native App almost from scratch.

2 My second project (generated by create-react-native-app
---------------------------------------------------------

-   Create a new project with create-react-native-app, like:
    > create-reac-native-app demo2

-   Navigate into the project and type npm (or yarn) start.

-   Scan the QR-code provided with the Expo app on your phone, and
    > verify that "it works".

### 2a) Debugging

If you did not attend the class for the React Native, Day-1 please (do
it anyway) skim these links:

-   Expo, [*Development
    > Mode*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/development-mode.html)

-   Expo,
    > [*Debugging*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/debugging.html)
    > (skip simulators, unless you're on Mac)

-   Facebook,
    > [*debugging*](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/debugging.html)

### 2b) Publishing 

[*This*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/publishing.html) is
how you are expected to hand-in "deployed" react native assignments.
Don't try (unless you are a red student) to deploy to the App Store and
Play Store. Just read the two first sections, *Publishing* and *How to
Publish*, it's almost too easy ;-)

\
3 Learn the Basics
------------------

[]{#_h8c8azpqs6qm .anchor}The main exercise for today is this [*Facebook
tutorial*](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started.html).
You should really really do your best to complete it before the end of
day-3+4.

#### Getting Started.

[]{#_1uxex7f8hmfh .anchor}Create a new Blank project with with the XDE
tool (Project → New Project → Blank). This will be the project that
should hold all 11 tasks from the Facebook tutorial.

[]{#_px2igy3lipc1 .anchor}**1)** Open the project in your editor, open
App.js and replace ALL code in this file with the this code:

[]{#_r2r03932sue7
.anchor}[*https://github.com/Cphdat3sem2017f/StartcodeExercises/blob/master/ReactNative/TutorialStart.js*](https://github.com/Cphdat3sem2017f/StartcodeExercises/blob/master/ReactNative/TutorialStart.js)

[]{#_k73do827m11m .anchor}**Important:** in the root of your project,
install react-navigation with npm like:

[]{#_ohvhvuedihsz .anchor}npm install react-navigation --save.

[]{#_qe654a4a5l4m .anchor}**2)** Share the code with the XDE button, and
load it into the Expo-client on your phone

[]{#_24xea2g5568k .anchor}**3)** Spend a few minutes before you start
with the tutorial with this App, and make sure you understand the
provided code (most of it, is Todo’s which you should delete when the
step is completed)

[]{#_ic1am1f95af5 .anchor}**Hints:** The sample code provided above, use
the StackNavigator from the React Navigation package. There are (much
too) many Router/navigation-frameworks out there for React Native. This
one seem to have the potential to “be the one” backed up by most of the
community,
[*inclusive*](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/navigation.html)
facebook.

[]{#_fppcn27kxmzu .anchor}Check links below, if you want to know more
(but the simple example above, *is all you are required to know* about
routing/navigation with React Native).

-   []{#_rl16wo1n8wnc
    > .anchor}[*https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/routing-and-navigation.html*](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/guides/routing-and-navigation.html)

-   []{#_q4dili1elnh9
    > .anchor}[*https://reactnavigation.org/*](https://reactnavigation.org/)

-   []{#_d2zmmsl1c1uo
    > .anchor}[*https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/navigation.html*](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/navigation.html)

[]{#_nzyzmufls13n .anchor}

#### How to get your Studypoints for this exercise

[]{#_or1hcktlgkfe .anchor}When you hand-in this exercise friday, you
must provide two URL’s (make sure to replace XXXX with your student id):

1.  []{#_jsu0iumhs582 .anchor}One for the github repository that host
    > your code

2.  []{#_9zromvd1ih55 .anchor}One for the deployed version of the code
    > (like in this [*demo*](https://expo.io/@lars/blank))

[]{#_gjdgxs .anchor}
