---
title: 'Study Point Exercise - Object Relational Mapping'
---

You can earn a maximum of **6** points for these exercises as outlined
below:

-   Exercises from [*ORM day
    > 1*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CB9LYW6uzFy6ibe7fLSHGI_5Ymx6kzdSdARNtsNO0ME/edit?usp=sharing)

-   Exam preparation exercise on relations and queries (and facade)
    > [*exam\_prepation\_JPA1*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19VyiyyuVcyOwNOUsKXrKe2n-6UiQtapRwlJH-4R8bCQ/edit)

-   Exam preparation exercise on inheritance
    > [*exam-preparation\_JPA2*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BQ5mqc82GMoASEPw6fQXGXfQSwhfL6cb7Gqqvrce9Ks/edit?usp=sharing)

-   Exam preparation exercise on JPQL
    > [*exam-preparation\_JPQL*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I1eLXAQPBI8QXSgITJUzkAPTjOQNe3Cn91kjrQPhhas/edit?usp=sharing)

[]{#_fhdwkakd9g5z .anchor}Remember that the exam preparation exercises
are meant to take about an hour, which means your actual exam problems
will twice as long. Expect to talk about the “general part” for about 10
minutes.

[]{#_osr1hpgya6c .anchor}**Review:**

[]{#_3z133jnwcogg .anchor}There is no handin of this exercise. You will
demo your work, and get feedback from us (teachers) as well as your
peers on monday.

[]{#_yus1wpc0vj58 .anchor}In your groups, you should each pick a an
exercise for your partner to review (aim for 5-10 minutes of review per
person, and pick exercise(s) accordingly). Try to pick different
exercises, so you don’t all review the same one.

[]{#_5xal0roz0wwv .anchor}This week, you will review each other's work
across groups. **Make sure to pair up so that if person A reviews person
B, person B reviews person A as well**.

[]{#_gy2k37k5965b .anchor}We suggest you stick to finishing the exercise
friday, so that your fellow students may have the weekend to review your
work, but if you can agree on some other arrangement you may, so long as
you are ready to give and receive feedback on monday.

[]{#_gvk72sksune3 .anchor}Ideally you should pair up with someone who
has the same level of ambition as yourself. A table below provides
suggestions for group pairings. It may be desirable to pair up
group-wise, i.e. so that every member in group 3 reviews someone in
group 1 and vice versa, as we can then review you together with another
member of your own group. Keeping these recommendations in mind; the
choice of partner is ultimately yours, so long as your reviewer is also
you reviewee.

[]{#_hmoweso98b2i .anchor}When you have decided on your pairings, enter
them in [*this
document*](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1V7o1WOBpU4bFH0DvGGXjw9-ab81g40YNmotisac_Ouc/edit?usp=sharing).
***Do this no later than 16:00 on friday the 23*** (if you do not, you
will be visited by the three spirits of christmas past, present, and
yet-to-come, which is going to be terrible for your beauty sleep).

[]{#_yp5r8rm5r3jo .anchor}

[]{#_3h7g50j7mrsj .anchor}**Suggested group pairings:**

  6   2   
  --- --- ---
  8   7   
  5   4   9
  3   1   

[]{#_j644rcozdk9x .anchor}

[]{#_gjdgxs .anchor}
